Hello world!

If we haven't yet been introduced, I like text adventures. I grew up on Colossal Cave Adventure. I still sometimes play it to see if I can beat it (you have to move fast and efficiently or else your lamp burns out, and the replacement battery lifespan is miniscule). About a year ago I started working on a Harry Potter themed text adventure in Python. It still doesn't have a plot or levels. Imagining ways to implement HP stuff in text-adventure world is fun -- I'm particularly proud of representing a hall with moving stairways as a room where "up" directs to another random room -- but even more fun is making the system itself more powerful and extendable. Ultimately, I'm more interested in making a system that is completely general, so it can be used to run many games and to create new ones. I've taken a stab at this in the past. It doesn't support user-defined commands and is horrendously buggy.

What we're talking about here is writing a text-adventure-specific programming language based on Python. Yes, I know Inform exists and is really powerful. But isn't there something to be said for doing things from scratch? So I'm going to try. And I'm going to write regular (every week? every two weeks?) posts with updates*, to hold myself accountable to actually working on this project instead of just thinking about it and writing tons of docstrings, to force myself to keep a blog by setting a topic that I really care about, and to hopefully get some feedback as I go along because I'm terrible at decision-making.

I think this is about right in scope for a kickoff entry. See you next time for Grand Plan Of The Moment, and/or Code Written On This Flight.

*I loathe writing. I've spent hours agonizing over one-paragraph-long emails. The only reason this post is full sentences and not bullet points is because I'm on a flight and hella bored. Future posts might be... terse; I don't think I'll be able to hold myself to regularity if I have to do the paragraph thing every time. So if you want to follow progress but are put off by my current prolixness**, it'll get better!

**I think that's the intersection of garrulous and pompous but can't look it up because plane! And won't look it up after plane because authenticity!
