Hey. So. Here is the current state of affairs.

In general, I have a theory about how to build a system that runs text adventures.

After many adventures (haha) with the creatively named project "game", I've come to the conclusion that game state and game logic have to be separated if you want to have even a prayer of your game being robust. You should also separate the input-processing. So we need something that holds state and mutates state, something that looks at the ball of state and decides what to report to the player and how the state ball should change, and something that parses player input and delivers a response to the player.

Or, more readably, the essential game engine consists of the following classes:
MaraudersMap -- holds state, changes state
Rowling -- logic. takes processed player input, decides on appropriate state change (if any), tells MaraudersMap what changes to make, prepares response to player
Legilimens -- processes raw player input*, delivers response

I also have a class that just keeps track of player input and results thereof. I'm not actually using it anywhere, but I think logging is a good idea.

I'm pretty sure that those are the main pieces you need to run a game, at least if your logic is hard-coded. Now, what if we want customizable logic?
Commands should be separate from MaraudersMap and Rowling, so writers can add Command objects as if they were adding Rooms, etc.
Rules for the commands should be separate from Commands, so writers can use the same Rule for multiple Commands (e.g. expecto_patronum and lumos should both have require_wand as a Rule), writers should be able to add their own rules
Writers should be able to subclass Rooms, Things*, and Players to make interesting new doodads* (check out Inform 7, where if I remember correctly a Computer is a Device is an Object*)
The game engine (MaraudersMap + Rowling + Legilimens) needs to know about the custom classes. This feels different to me from custom state -- you could write many different games set in, say, Oz, but once you add a Phaser(Thing) and Teleport(Command), you're not in Kansas anymore even if your initial state is exactly the same.
There should be a standard library of Commands, Rules, and base classes (Room, Thing, Player) so writers can hit the ground running.

Great. Now the whole shebang needs to be saddled to another parser that processes writer input.

So the way I see it, there are three levels:
Make an engine that works. If I get lazy I can stop here and use the better working engine to finish my HP game.
Add support for customizable Commands and subclasses of Room, Thing, and Player. This, I believe, will be the hard part.
Add another parser. Opportunity to inflict users with horrible syntax ;-P

I'll attack them in that order.

See you on the other side.